# Allen Brain Cell Atlas - Data Access

The Allen Brain Cell Atlas (ABC Atlas) aims to empower researchers worldwide to
explore and analyze multiple whole-brain datasets simultaneously. As the Allen
Institute and its collaborators continue to add new modalities, species, and
insights to the ABC Atlas, this groundbreaking platform will keep growing,
opening up endless possibilities for groundbreaking discoveries and
breakthroughs in neuroscience. With the ABC Atlas, researchers everywhere can
gain new insights into the brainâ€™s complex workings, advancing our
understanding of this amazing organ in ways we never thought possible.

Data associated with the ABC Atlas is hosted on Amazon Web Services (AWS) in an
S3 bucket as a AWS Public Dataset, [arn:aws:s3:::allen-brain-cell-atlas](https://allen-brain-cell-atlas.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/index.html).
No account or login is required for access. The purpose of this repo is to
provide an overview of the available data, how to download and use it through
example use cases.

The fall 2023 public beta data release includes:
* **[Mouse whole-brain transcriptomic cell type atlas](descriptions/data_release_subtitle1.md)
  (Hongkui Zeng)**
* **[A molecularly defined and spatially resolved cell atlas of the whole mouse brain](descriptions/data_release_subtitle2.md)
  (Xiaowei Zhuang)**

Each release has an associated **manifest.json** which list all the specific
version of directories and files that are part of the release. We recommend
using the manifest as the starting point of data download and usage.

Expression matrices are stored in the
[anndata h5ad format](https://anndata.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and needs to
be downloaded to a local file system for usage. To make data transfer, download
and access more efficient, the 10x transcriptomics datasets have been
subdivided into smaller packages grouped by method and anatomical origin. The
notebooks provide example code on how to access data across these individual
files.

Available notebooks:

* [**Getting started**](notebooks/getting_started.ipynb): learn how to use the
  manifest.json file to facilitate data download and usage.
[*notebooks/getting_started.ipynb*]
* **[Mouse whole-brain transcriptomic cell type atlas](descriptions/notebook_subtitle1.md)
  (Hongkui Zeng)**
* **[A molecularly defined and spatially resolved cell atlas of the whole mouse brain](descriptions/notebook_subtitle4.md)
  (Xiaowei Zhuang)**
