README.md, before:

# Allen Brain Cell Atlas - Data Access

The Allen Brain Cell Atlas (ABC Atlas) aims to empower researchers worldwide to explore and analyze multiple whole-brain datasets simultaneously. As the Allen Institute and its collaborators continue to add new modalities, species, and insights to the ABC Atlas, this groundbreaking platform will keep growing, opening up endless possibilities for groundbreaking discoveries and breakthroughs in neuroscience. With the ABC Atlas, researchers everywhere can gain new insights into the brain’s complex workings, advancing our understanding of this amazing organ in ways we never thought possible.

## ABC Atlas Data Access JupyterBook 
https://AllenInstitute.github.io/abc_atlas_access

## How to contribute 
[JupyterBook Contribution Guide](docs/jupyterbook/README.md)

## Level of support
We are not currently supporting this code, but simply releasing it to the community AS IS but are not able to provide any guarantees of support. The community is welcome to submit issues, but you should not expect an active response.

Commit message:

Update notebooks and create WHB pages/notebooks.
Move Zhuang-C57BL6J-1 gene list to Zhuang-ABCA-1.
Update notebooks to use cache object.
Clean up notebooks.
Add kwargs to get_metadata_dataframe.
Add WHB webpage.
Fix manifest comparison warning.
Modify website text and file names.
Create expression matrix notebook.
Add WHB notebooks.
Create get anndata_utils funciton

README.md, after:

# Allen Brain Cell Atlas - Data Access

The Allen Brain Cell Atlas (ABC Atlas) aims to empower researchers worldwide to
explore and analyze multiple whole-brain datasets simultaneously. As the Allen
Institute and its collaborators continue to add new modalities, species, and
insights to the ABC Atlas, this groundbreaking platform will keep growing,
opening up endless possibilities for groundbreaking discoveries and
breakthroughs in neuroscience. With the ABC Atlas, researchers everywhere can
gain new insights into the brain’s complex workings, advancing our
understanding of this amazing organ in ways we never thought possible.

## ABC Atlas Data Access JupyterBook Website
https://AllenInstitute.github.io/abc_atlas_access

## How to contribute 
[JupyterBook Contribution Guide](docs/jupyterbook/README.md)

Note: for scientific questions regarding the data this repository is accessing,
please use the
[Allen Institute's community forum](https://community.brain-map.org/).
If you are having an issue with the code or notebooks not running properly
please open an issue on this Github respoitory. However, please see below.

## Level of support
We are not currently supporting this code, but simply releasing it to the
community AS IS but are not able to provide any guarantees of support. The
community is welcome to submit issues, but you should not expect an active
response.
