descriptions/WHB-taxonomy.md, before:

# Human brain taxonomy of cell types

The data presented here from [Siletti et al. 2022](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.10.12.511898v1),
consists of over three million single cells and two million neurons from 100
locations across the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The integrated 
transcriptomic taxonomy contains 31 superclusters, 461 clusters, and 3313
subclusters.

A detailed cell type [annotation table](https://allen-brain-cell-atlas.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/metadata/WMB-taxonomy/20231215/cl.df_CCN202307220.xlsx)
is also provided along with data downloads detailing information about the
hierarchical membership, anatomical annotation, neurotransmitter type, cell
type marker genes, transcription factor and neuropeptide markers, and other
metadata types for each cluster.

The associated metadata is hosted on AWS S3 bucket as a AWS Public Dataset:

| Component | Current Version | Size   |
|---|--|--------|
| Metadata | [s3://allen-brain-cell-atlas/metadata/WHB-taxonomy/20240330/](https://allen-brain-cell-atlas.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/metadata/WHB-taxonomy/20240330/) | 1.6 MB |

Data is being shared under the CC BY NC 4.0 license.

Related resources :
* Human brain single cell transcriptomes ([WHB-10Xv3](WHB-10Xv3.md))
* Clustering analysis of over 3 million single cell transcriptomes spanning the
  whole adult human brain ([WHB-10X-clustering](WHB-10X-clustering.md))

Associated notebooks:
* [**Getting started**](../notebooks/getting_started.ipynb): learn how to use the AbcProjectCache to
  facilitate data download and usage.
* [**10x scRNA-seq clustering analysis and annotation**](../notebooks/cluster_annotation_tutorial.ipynb): learn about the
  whole mouse brain taxonomy through some example use cases and visualization.
* **10x scRNA-seq gene expression data**
  * [**Part 1**](../notebooks/10x_snRNASeq_tutorial_part_1.ipynb): learn about the 10x dataset through some example use
    cases and visualization of cells in the thalamus.
  * [**Part 2a**](../notebooks/10x_snRNASeq_tutorial_part_2a.ipynb): learn how to iterate through all the data packages, to
    access data for whole brain example use cases in part 2b.
  * [**Part 2b**](../notebooks/10x_snRNASeq_tutorial_part_2b.ipynb): Explore the whole brain data through visualization and
    analyses of a set of genes of interest.

Commit message:

Add WHB cluster taxonomy pages.
Clean up links on site a notebooks.

descriptions/WHB-taxonomy.md, after:

# Human brain taxonomy of cell types

The data presented here from [Siletti et al. 2023](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.add7046),
consists of over three million single cells and two million neurons from 100
locations across the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The integrated 
transcriptomic taxonomy contains 31 superclusters, 461 clusters, and 3313
subclusters.

The associated metadata is hosted on AWS S3 bucket as a AWS Public Dataset:

| Component | Current Version | Size   |
|---|--|--------|
| Metadata | [s3://allen-brain-cell-atlas/metadata/WHB-taxonomy/20240330/](https://allen-brain-cell-atlas.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/index.html#metadata/WHB-taxonomy/20240330/) | 1.6 MB |

Data is being shared under the CC BY NC 4.0 license.

Related resources :
* Human brain single cell transcriptomes ([WHB-10Xv3](WHB-10Xv3.md))
* Clustering analysis of over 3 million single cell transcriptomes spanning the
  whole adult human brain ([WHB-10X-clustering](WHB-10X-clustering.md))

Associated notebooks:
* [**Getting started**](../notebooks/getting_started.ipynb): learn how to use the manifest.json file to
  facilitate data download and usage.
* [**10x scRNA-seq clustering analysis and annotation**](../notebooks/WHB_cluster_annotation_tutorial.ipynb):
  learn about the  whole human brain taxonomy through some example use cases
  and visualization.
* [**Accessing 10X gene expression data**](../notebooks/general_accessing_10x_snRNASeq_tutorial.ipynb):
  learn how to load individual genes from the 10X expression data.
* **10x scRNA-seq gene expression data**
  * [**Part 1**](../notebooks/WHB-10x_snRNASeq_tutorial_part_1.ipynb): learn about the 10x dataset through some example use
    cases and visualization of cells.
  * [**Part 2**](../notebooks/WHB-10x_snRNASeq_tutorial_part_2.ipynb): Explore the whole brain data through visualization and
    analyses of a set of genes of interest.
